<p>In my teenage years, I got into puzzle solving thanks to Sherlock Holmes. The rush of pieces coming together that solve the mystery and make perfect sense was exhilirating. A somewhat similar sentiment was also shared with coding, where when the logic made perfect sense in the most elegant and concise manner, running the program successfully felt not that different from figuring out a case. As it has been with most experiences, there comes a day where the lesson learnt has to be once again evaluated for its veracity.</p>
One of the most important lessons of my life was thus taught to me by the consequences of my arrogance and hubris at that time. I was convinced that I was definitely a logical and rational person, and anybody who didn't see it my way was, by definition, illogical and irrational. My mind boasted to itself about how 'unbiased', 'analytical' and 'scientific' it was. I am grateful towards my arrogant past self, because were it not for his conspicuous superiority complex, I wouldn't have been humbled soon.
Once on Omegle, I met a gentleman whose politeness I did not return in kind. However, this wise man was calm and humble nonetheless. When I presented an argument to him with the confidence that I was, as always, in the right because I had thought it through like nobody else does, I was put down swiftly. I will not go into the particulars of the debate, but know this, the blow to my ego that I received was profound.
This was an opportunity for character development, and fortunately I did not miss it. More importantly I learned another lesson that day, just because it makes sense to you, does not mean that it has to be true. Unwittingly I had stepped into the territory of epistemology, and discovered the Gettier problem. Intuition tells you that the pieces fit together perfectly, so the resulting picture must be accurate. But reality seldom is that simple. Don't get me wrong, I do believe in objective reality and science, however I talk about the chatter that concerns every matter other than science.
For example, let's take Universal Basic Income. Mind you that I am with the example that I am about provide, I am neither protesting it nor supporting it. Moreover, the example is incredibly simple, and does not do complete justice to the topic of this article, but it suffices to be intelligible enough and also get the point across. 
Intuition tells you that a regular, unconditional, and ample provision of money to a person would turn them unwilling to work hard, or work at all. This corollary was 'logically' being inferred from the justified belief that people work jobs to earn a living. The experiment conducted in Finland said otherwise. Let alone unwilling, people seemed more eager to work as employment rates rose. The pieces fit together perfectly before, but in hindsight they missed the possibility that perhaps human beings have an innate desire to struggle.
Thus is a widely-popular and cynical belief that when we get right down to brass tacks, human beings are selfish. Although there are dozens of counter-examples that completely obliterate this notion, let me focus on one; the bystanders who stand idle around a person in distress. Turns out, 'the bystander's effect' is natural and does not originate from human selfishness, but rather from an anxiety to let somebody else lead. It was observed that if there was a lone person without anyone else to help, they didn't wait to help. Moreover, people rushed to help if even one of the members of the crowd took the initiative to help first. 
The eponymous lesson is all-pervasive. All you have to do wait, and not be so certain with your beliefs. A little humility goes a long way. 